Part 1

Handwriting
1.Do you usually write by hand or write using a computer?
I perfer writing on the computer rather than writing by hand. Though I do enjoy journal writing with pen from time to time, writing on the computer is more faster and easy to save.

2.Nowadays, how do most people write things?
People usually write on their computer or Ipad, because it's faster than writing by hand.Moreover, they don't have to worry about spelling as much.

3.Do you think computers might one day replace handwriting?
No, I think we will always write by hand. I think it's an important skill, and schools will continue to teach children to write by hand before they learn to type.

4.When do children begin to write in your country?
Children in my country are supposed to be able to read and write thier ABC's by the time they hit the kindergarden or prescholl. All kids are different, generally most kids start to learn writing at the age of about 3 or 4.

5.How did you learn to write?
At firtst I read, then I learn to imitate what I saw, first taught by my parents, then teachers when I entered the elementary school.

7.How can children today improve their handwriting?
Practice makes perfect. Have them trace a model. Let them treat it like homework and spend 30 minutes or more everyday working on it, at first. Besides, parents and teachers should encourage them to slow down when handwriting assignments.

8.What impression does a person's handwriting have on other people?
There is a famous Chinese saying, "you are what you write", so a person's handwriting may strike other people as sighs of his personality.

Birthday
1.How do children celebrate birthdays in your country?
Children are fond of parties and lovely gifts. Also they like celebrate it with friends like getting together and have a great meal.

2.How did you celebrate your last birthday?
My last birthday was held in a restaurant. I invites my best friends and we had birthday cake, sang and daned together. My parents and friends gave me some nice and beautiful presents.

3.What kinds of birthday gifts do you like to receive?
I'd like to receive some intellectual gifts, such as electronic dictionay, notebook computer and so on.

4.Is there a difference between the way you celebrate your birthday in the past and in the present?
Sure, I think there's a big difference.When I was a child, my parents always prepared a bithday party for me, and we sang birthday song and ate birthday cake together. But now I seldom celebrate my birthday and somtimes I even forget it, because I'm so busy and I have no time to celebrate it.


Flowers
1.Do you like flowers?why
Yes, I suppose so. I don't think we would care to live in a world without flowers. Flowers make our world more valid and in my country, people often use flowers to describe their emotion.

2.What flowers do you like?why
My favorite flower is rose. They have great fragrance. And they were the first flowers I ever given to my grilfriend.

3.Which is your favorite flower?
I have a thing for rose. Rose always reminds me of graceful and elegant ladies. I was hopefully when giving a bunch of roses to my girlfirend on our aniversary day.

4.Do you think flowers are important?
Definitely, flowers are essential to our life.I can't imagine life without these lovely flowers. They can decorate our rooms, making our life more coloful.

5.On what occasion are flowers important?
Different flowers convey different feelings in China, they can be used as presents to send to your friends, your sweetheart or your parents.

6.Do people in your country ever use flowers for special occasions?
In China, flowers are important because they have special meaning. For example, the rose reprents a symbol of love, so boys usually sen roses to girls when proposing marrige. And, lilies symbolize on hundred years of love and devotion, so they are used for decoration at weddings.

7.In your country, do people give flowers as a gift?
Yes, they do. For example, when people get married, relatives and friends usually send the newly married couple bunches of lilies, which symbolize eternal love.


8.What are the occasions when people give or recieve flowers?
On Valentine's Day, people in China send roses to their sweethearts. And when people visit patients, they usually bring them carnations, to hope them recover soon.

Walking
1.Do you like to walk?
Yes, I do. I'm not on for going on really long walks in the countryside, but I don't mind walking when I'm in a town or city, for example when I', sightseeing in a new place.

2.Do you like to walk on your own or with others?
For me, I prefer walking alone. Sometimes I walk around the campus, or waling along the beach. I think walking alone helps me relax my mind and I also practice meditation through walking.

3.Would you say that your city is a good place for walking?
No, I guess it's hard to find some good places for walking in this city. Because as you can see, due to the environmental pollution, the air quality is so bad, and it's unfit to do outdoor exercise. Moreover, there are too much noise on the street, so your mind will be distracted by loud noise through walking.

Painting
1.Do you like painting or drawing?
Yes, I do. I think it's interesting, but I don't konw how to draw well. When I was a child, I would draw something by myself, but I have never received professional training. If I have the opportunity, I want to learn some painting skills.

2.How often do you visit art galleries?
I go to the art gallery nearly every week. I prefer visiting the art gallery because I'm crazy about art. I like abstract pataining best, so I will never miss any exhibition of abstract art held in the art gallery, and I will always find inpiration from it and vreate my own art work.

3.What kinds of things do you like to draw?
I like painting very much, as I am a animated flim buff, I always draw my favorite cartoon figures in my leisure time.

4.Is it easy to learn how to draw?
In my opinion, the ability of painting depends mainly on talents. For me, I am naturally good at painting. When I was a child, I could draw without teachers' guiances. But for some other people, drawing is really a big headache, and they'll find it really difficult to master this skill.

Gifts
1.How often do you buy others gifts?
I guess it is not often. I usually give gifts to my friends and family mainly on their birthdays. Besides, I will make a couple of gifts to my girlfriend by myself in some festival like Valentine's day and Christmas Day.

2.Do you like to send expensive gifts?
No, it's totally unnecessary. Gifts don't mean material object all the time and can be something special, including forgiveness and kindness.


3.What kinds of gifts are popular in your country？
Think of Chinese people, It's common to send each others tea as gifts. Especially the longjin tea, which is world-famous.


4.Why do people send gifts?
Because giving gifts to others could not only make them happy but also makes people have a strong sense of achievement. You konw, making other people pleasure is really an exciting thing.

Advertisement
1.Are there many advertisements in your country?
Yep, advertisements in my country are prevalent. Specially, in the crowded place such as the bus or on the business streets, you can always contact advertisements.

2.Why do you think there are so many advertisements now?
Whether you like them or not, whenever and wherever it's possible that you can meet them. For biz sellers, ad could be very helpful to promote their products. For acceptors, ads might show some lastest information. To buy or not to buy, to be fond of or not, all depend on your decisions.

3.What are the varous places where we see advertisements?
Today, media is so blatantly filled with advertisements: TV, radio, magazine, newspaper, billborads. Even more pathetic when I recently watched a 16 second clip with a two-minute commercial without the option to skip. I think many advertisements are brain-washing us.

4.How do you feel about advertisement?
I would say I enjoy some of them coz they are creative and simulating. But it's true that when we watch TV, most of them always distrub the fun of enjoying the programs. Besides the information they bring us always are misleading.

Outdor Activities
1.What do you do in your spare time?
As matter of fact, I have very little spare time these day. My studies are so important to me  that I have given up all my other activities. For example, I used to love playing tennis, but these days I simply do not have the time. I addition, I used to swim often, as I believe it kept me fit without the danger of being injured.

2.Do you like outdoor activities?
Sure, I do like all kinds of outdoor activities because it's a really good way to get closer to the nature and to release our pressure. We can be too busy dealing with our life chaos. Outdoor activities help us to keep fit both in physics and in minds.

3.What outdoor activites do you like to do?
I like go hiking and play badminton in the park during my spare time. I think hiking is good for my health and can help me get close to the nature. Playing badminton is good for me to stretch my arms after a whole day's work or study.

4.How often do you do that？
Well, I'm not sure about the percentages, but I konw there are various oppotunities for me to do outdoor activities.

5.What outdoor sports do you like?Why?
I like cycling. Sometimes I ride my bike along the river. Although there're always a lots of travelers, I can always find my own quiet place to relax. This can really help me feel close to the nature.

6.Hou much time do you spend outdoors every week?
It's not a certain thing though. When I am free to of worries about test or homework, I could go outside a lot, such as going shopping or outing. But when I am busy with my studying or test preparation, I coul d stay at school for weeks.

7.How often do you do outdoor activities?
I do outdoor activities almost everyday. I like playing some sports with my friends on our school playground, and I am good at many different kinds of sports, such as football, badmintion, and volleyball.

8.What outdoor activities are popular in your country?
People in China do many different outdoor activities. For children, they like playing sports, such as badmition, tennis, and volleyball. While for young people, they may hang out with friends or go on picnics in the parks. Old people usually like dancing on the square.

Sing
1.Do you often sing?
Well, singing is the biggest passion in my life. I sing everyday, when I doing my homework, washing dishes or even having a bath. I think music can infuse our lives with joy.

2.When do you like to sing?
Since I am a very outgoing boy, I like singing very much, especially when I am taking a shower. Because at that time, I feel relaxed and happy, so sing uncontrollably.

3.How much time do you spend in singing everyday?
It really depends. As soon as I have time, I often sing before bedtime. Sometimes, I often sing while traving on the bus, or when I feel bored. I think it's a good way to amuse myself.

4.What kinds of music do you like to sing?
I like to sing pop music. As you konw, my favourite pop star is Jay Chou. His songs are prevailing among the young these years, and I can sing every song of him.

5.Is it difficult to sing well?
I always believe that there's nothing difficult in this world, if you put your heart into it. Take myself as an example, I was poor at singing before, but later I have been keeping pratice, and I can sing well now.

6.Do you want to be a singer?
No, although I'm crazy about music, but I only like listening to music. Actually, I'm not very interested in becoming a singer, because I konw perfetly that I lack the endowment of singing. So I will concentrate more on my academic study.

Sunny days
1.Do you like sunny days?
Yes, well, It depends. In summer, it make me sweat at lot, but in winter, it give me a warm feeling and put me in a good mood for the whole day. I really like the feeling when seeing the sunshine through the window in winter. It is fantastic!

2.What do you like to do when it's a sunny day?
Well, on sunny day. I can do some outdoor activities such as swimming, camping, hiking or have a bbq with my friend in the park or even flying kite with my little cousuin.

3.Would you like to stay at home or go outside when the weather is great?
Personally, I prefer going outside. Especially in summer, I like to go to the beach and I can swimming in the sea and lie down on the soft sand, enjoying a wonderful sunbath and the nice view of the sea and sky.

4.Are there many sunny days in your hometown?
The weather is quite extreme in my hometown, actually. I mean in spring and summer, there are many sunny days, and it's scorching. While in autumn and winter, it's alyways rainy and freezing cold.

Noise
1.Do you mind noises?
Yes, traffic noise has a huge influence on me and this may lead to permanent hearing loss. Actually, I'm quite sensitive to this kind of sound. You konw, even the sound of a car alarm in the next street can wake me up at midnight.

2.What types of noise do you come across in your daily life?
Well, I hate the noise that caused by transport, industrial and recreational activities in the city. These kinds of noise almost drives me crazy and it may lead to an increase in stress. What's more, it can increase the risk of deaf.

3.Are there any sounds that you like?
Well, I like listening bird singing, especially in the morning. Though birds using their voice to impress mates and proclaim territories, the lovely sound can still comfort my mind and keep me in good mood all day.

4.Where can you hear loud noise?
On constrution site! I really can't stand the sound of drilling, simply because it's just such a loud and unpleasant noise.

5.Do you think there's too much noise in modern society?
Yes, loud music on the street and the noise made by cars, trams and phone calls are all noise I can't stand. Also, people talking constantly drive me nuts. I think the world is getting noiser, I konw it is harder to find a quiet place anymore.

6.Are cities becoming noisier?
Yes, I think cities are getting noisier, yeah, basically because if you compare the situation in cities now to what it was like 10 or 15 years ago, then it's obvious that citis have got a lot noisier, mainly, of course, due to the increase in traffic on the roads. So unless something changes, I would say that this trend is likely to continue into the future, unfortunately.

Mobile phone
1.How often do you use your mobile phone?
Well, obviously I use my mobile phone on a daily basis. I always use it to get in touch with my family and friends. Besides, I play games in my mobile phone when I have nothing to do at home in the day time.

2.Can you describe your mobile phone?
Currently, I'm using Iphone 6s. Though it was quite expensive, it came with lots of exciting features and apps. The screen response is perfect and the thumb print works 100% of the time and is really convenient to get into the phone. Besides, the camera is awesome too, and does not have the delay so I can always capture the stunning moment.

3.What was your first mobile phone?
My first mobile phone was the Nokia bar phone in 2004. It was quite expensive then because I was a university student and didn't have much money. I got a part-time job to earn the money and bought it in a shopping mall. Fortunately the mobile phone turned out to be well worth what I had done then.

4.Would you buy a new on in the future?
Yes, my Iphone 6s is relatively outdated, so I just want to update to the latest Iphone 7 in the near future. It has a larger screen so I believe it would be much more comfortable to read news or type text messages to my friends on it.

5.How has your mobile phone changed your life?
Oh, the mobile phone definitely has changed my life dramatically. Probably the most interesting change is that the mobile phone has freed me from the constraints of space. For example, it is no longer necessary to meet my friends to aplogise if I'm late to a meeting. I just make a telephone call. I think my life is fully moblie.

Newspapers
1.Do you often read newspapers?
I read newpapers everyday, to get current affairs and learn more about the world.

2.Which do you prefer reading, magazines or newspapers?
I prefer reading newspapers. Cos newpapers can tell us what is happening in the real world, and spreading the advanced konwlege and ideology. By reading newpapers, we can simply move withe the times.

3.What kinds of newspapers do you usually read?
I usualy read sports newpapers. Cos sometimes I'm busy with my work and study, so I will miss the live matches on TV. But by reading newpaper, I can konw the process and result of the games.

4.How old were you when you first started to read newspapers?
I got the habit of reading newspapers when I was in high school, 18 years old maybe. The library in my school had several kinds of newspapers and magazines so that as long as I had free time, I'd like to go to read some news about latest political events, sports and fashion news.

5.Do you think it's important to read newpapers?
Yes, I feel that it's very important for me and other people to konw what happend in the domestic and international events.

6.Whay do people read newspaper?
It's kind of hard to say but people that I konw around me tend to read the political news because they are interested in what happens in the domestic country and abroad, but maybe for others, they just care more about the sports and fashion events.

7.What different types of newspaper are there in China?
Local newspapers cover local news, stories, sales of various categories. National newspapers cover international and national news in businiess, politics and government policies.

8.Do you care about the news?
Yes, I do. I often use my weibo to read news. It's like a daily routine for me now.

9.It the new important to you?
It's not as important as getting food every day, but learning waht's going on in the world is fun to me. So I'd say it's like entertainment, I may not need it every day, but I need to have some at least every other day.

10.What kinds of news do Chinese people read in newspapers?
For young people in China, they like reading about celevrities and movie stars. While for elder people, they prefer reading domestic news and international news to learn more about current affairs.

11.Do you prefer to read about domestic news or international news?
Well, if I were to choose between the two, I'll probably go with reading domestic news because they are closer to home, and affects me more; whereas, you konw, international news sometimes have nothing to do with my daily life, so I just read the headline.

12.What are some methods that newspapers use to attract readers?
Well, I feel that newpaper agents always try to use the bold headings, attractive advertisements, and insights in the article to get the readers' attention.

13.What influence do you think newpapers have on society?
Well, I guess that newspapers have a great influence on society. Newspaper keep them informed about economy, political activities, science, education. Besides, it gives a true and correct picture of the society, country. Moreover, they also help us to educate people about their rights and duties.

14.Do you think the internet is a good way to get news?
Yes, getting news from internet is a regular source now because it's very convenient for em to get news from internet such as mobile phone. The news apps in my mobile phone usually send me the most urgent notifications to me so it keeps me posted.

Hometown
1.Where is your hometown?
I come from Yangquan. My parents have been living here for the past thirty years or so. I grew up here and attended a well-konwn high school called the first High school. We live in a nice area with many shops, restaurants, and other business.

2.What are the things you dislike about your hometown?
I guess the answer would be the economy. My hometown is not near the center of the city, its economy is bad. Some are are pretty run-down. People in my hometown are not rich and the living condition is not very good. Even worsely its economy is shrinking instead of growing cas the coal sell not very well in recent years. 

3.Do you like your hometown?
I pretty like my hometown coz the environment there is beautiful and clean, you can hardly see any rubbish in the street. And the weather there is comfortable and extramely suit to live, moreover, the local residents are friendly and aproachable.

4.What do you like about your hometown?
You konw, my hometown is a famous mountious city-yangquan. It is famous for its beautiful sightseeing and decilious food. Besides, the cityscape is gorgeous. I really like my home town not only because its beautiful landscape but also the laid back lifestyle.

5.Is that a big city or a small place?
It is a small town in shanxi province, although there are not many people live in. People from my hometown are kind and warmheart, so I really enjoy the simply realationship with others.

7.How long have you been living there?
I was born and raised here. Now, I've lived here for about twenty years. I love here and want to build it more beautiful with my bare hand until death.

8.Do you like living there?
Absolutely yes. I love the palatable, delicate food and slow life pace there, and as I mentioned before, It's a city with many mountians, the landscape is gorgous and never to forget.

9.Do you think you will continue living there for a long time?
No, I don't think I will continue living here for a long time, coz I want to better mysefl in my career.

Living place
1.which room do you like best in your apartment?
My favorite room is the big living room, of course. Because I can invite my best friends to there and sit on the comfortable sofa to watch a couple of movies. Sometimes, we also can hole a big party there, it is a ncie way for us to kid back and relax. So I really like the living room.

2.Who do you live with?
I live with my parents in a flat. And we also keep a dog as a pet.

3.Do you live in a flat or a house?
I live in a flat. My flat locates in the heart of my hometown so the transport facilities there are really convenient. Besides it is surrounded by two parks, so it is really comfortable for us to live there. More specially, my flat are made up of 4 bed rooms and a big living room.

4.Will you stay in that place for a very long time?
No, I like new things. So I like to move to new places. I never stay in a place for a long time, because I feel board and get tired of everything.

5.What kind of housing/accommodation do you live in?
I have a very small apartment in the central area of my hometown. Although it is not very big, it is convenient. All places including supermarkets, office and also bus station are all within the walking distance.

6.How long have you lived there?
I have been living here about 15 years. As I said before, it is quite convenient.

7.What's the difference between where you are?
The biggest difference is that I spend less time on daily commuting. As you konw, I lived in suburb in the past, and it took me nearly 3 hours to go to work. But now I live near my company, and I normally walk to the office and it just takes me 20 minutes every day.

9.Can you discribe the place where you live?
Yeah, I live in a rented apartment with four housemates. Though my bedroom is very tiny, I feel quite homey there, and my housemates are all very nice, so I am satisfied with it.

10.Which room does your family spend most of the time in?
Dining room. It is an ideal place for family reunion and family meal. We can enjoy delicious foods and share thoughts with each other especially after an exhasting day.

11.What do you usually do in your house/flat/room?
There are a lot of things I could do, to name just a few, reading my favorite books and appreciating detective story movies.

12.Are the transport facilities to your home very good?
Yes, as I said, my apartment is in the city center and thus I could enjoy convenient public transport. It only takes about ten minutes to go to the bus station on foot.

13.Do you prefer living in a house or a flat?
I prefer living in a flat. Although I always envy those who own a big house in the suburban areas. My flat is situated in the city center where provides easy access to my workplace. However, people who live in the big house enjoy more spacious room and can do their gradening, you konw, trimming the grass, taking care of flowers and stuff you like that.

14.Please describe the room you live in.
My bedroom is not that spacious. I think it's only 20 square meters. But it is well-furnished. First of all, I have a king-size bed, and I often lie there to read comics and novel. It is very cosy. Next to my bed is a bookshelf where I put hundreds of books there. Most of them used to belong to my parents, and I still buy book quite often. You konw, I'm kind of a book worm. In addition, there's a large desk in front of the window. My room is quite bright, it's a nice place to relax.

Traveling
1.When was the first time you took a taxi?
Well, to tell the truth. I can't remember it clearly. Maybe when I was 5,6 years old. One day, my grandpa found that I had a high fever, and the hospital was far away from home. So we finally choose to take a taxi. Actually, I think taking taxi is a good choice if you are in an emergancy.

2.What are the advantages of taking a taxi compared with buses.
Compared with buses, a taxi obviously had many advantages. Firstly, you don't need to worry that there's no seat, since you can always get a seat on the taxi. Also, taking a taxi is faster than taking abus, because it can arrive the destination directly.

3.Is it convenient to take the bus/taxi in your city?
Yes, it's really convenient. There's a bus stop alomst every block. For me, I take a bus to work everyday. It's both cheap and convenient.

Public Transportation
1.What's the most popular means of transportation in your hometown?
Bus is the most popular means of transportation in my hometown. But the nearest bus station is half mile away and there's only one bus passing every twenty minutes. You'll get frustrated if you miss a bus.

2.How often do you take a buses.
I take a bus to work everyday. I am a moron in driving, but taking a bus is both cheap and convenient and you don't have to drive yourself. However, when stuck in traffic jams, you may feel anxious.

3.Can you compare the advantages of plane and trains?
Well, for me, I would say, with train, you can get up and move around during the journey, and you can also enjoy the beautiful senery along the trip. While an advantage of taking the plane is that it can save time and it allows you to reach any place in the world.

4.Is driving to work popular in your country?
I don't think so. In China, traffic jams often happen in rush hour, especially in rainy days. So most people choose to go to work by subway since it has the merit of convenient, shortcut and vast capacity.

5.Do you think people will drive more in the future?
No, because the government in China encourage people to drive less, so more and more people choose to take public tranportations. You konw, the traffic situation is overly bad during rush hours, and taking public transportations like subway is both cheap and convenient.

6.Would you ride bikes to work in the future?
No, because my company is pretty close to me, it's just a ten minutes walk. So I don't really need a bike to get there.

7.What will become the most popular means of 
transportation in China?
I think that will be the subway. Well, I think subways will become the most popular means of transport for urban development because of its efficiency, punctuaily, low pollution. 

8.Do you prefer public transportation or private transportation?
I prefer public transportation. I used public tranportation all the time to get to home. The tranportation in big city is crap. So owning your own cai or taking a taxi isn't such a good idea. You could be stuck in traffic forever plus expenses for gas and parking garage.

Swimming
1.Do you like swimming?
I'm really into swimming. I had learned swimming in my primary school.

2.Is it difficult to learn how to swim?
I think it's difficult for me. I am little afraid of water, and my movements are not standard till now, and some time, I cannot avoid swallowing water.

3.Where do Chinese like to go swimming?
Chinese people usually swim in swimming pools coz swmming in the pool is much safer, you konw, there are loads of potential hazards in the ocean, people are afraid to step on the poisonous marine life.

4.What's the difference between swimming in the pool and swimming in the sea? 
It gonna be very different, cuz sicentifically speaking, sea water has a higher desity than the fresh water in the pool which effects our buoyancy, we will float better because of the higher density in the sea. And what's more, there is current in the sea, obviously it is hard to swim against the current or waves at least.

Music
1.Do you like music?
Yes, I like music very much. I cannot imagine what my life would be like without music. Firstly, I believe music plays an important part in people’s lives. We can use it to sooth our minds after a hard day at work, or it can provide us with the rhythm to dance to.

2.Have you ever learned to play a musical instrument?
I have to admit that I learned to play a variety of instruments, such as the violin and the piano, but I quitted the private courses when I found out that I was not really interested in them. At the age of eleven, I started to play the clarinet. It is still my favorite musical instrument now, and I enjoyperforming with my clarinet at diverse occasions.

3.When do you listen to music?
I listen to music whenever I want,especially when I'm frustrated and felt lonely.Music is an
appeasement to shattered nerves, so I usually solace myself with music.

4.How much time do you spend listening to music every day?
I guess I listen to music for about half an hour every day. I would, for example, listen when I get home from school, or in the evenings before I go to bed. On weekends, however, I listen to music much more. For example, I would invite my best friend over to my place, and we would listen to our favorite CD’s for a few hours at a time.

5.What kinds of music do you like to listen to?
I like pop music very much. First of all, pop music is lively, and suits me at my age. What I mean to say is that us youngsters like to listen to music that fits in with the way we feel Secondly, usually has a good rhythm. For instance, it is suitable for us to dance on. Lastly, pop music is simple to understand. That is to say, I like it because it is not difficult to understand, and it helps me to relax after I have been studying hard for some time.

6.Have you ever been to a concert before?
Yes, I have. I went to see a classical music concert last year.I'm really fascinated by the concert coz I enjoyed the atmosphere there.

7.Do you like to listen to live music?
Yes, I like to listen to live music. Because in a live concert, we share the viewing experience with a large audience who love the same music. However, we can't take in the atmosphere and the magic of music by just watching a concert on TV.

8.When did you start listening to this type of music?
Probably three months ago. That was the first time I listened to Norah Jones and knew about jazz music.

9.Where do you listen to it?
Sometimes I listen to music on the bus and sometimes I listen to music at home.And I think listening music can make me relaxed.

10.How do you feel when you listen to this music?
I feel so relaxed. Every time I listen to this type of music and close my eyes, it feels like my soul could stretch and fill the whole room. I could understand and touch the free emotion of the singer.

11.Do you like listening to songs?
Yes, I do. I like listening to songs. I could tell you that music is part of my life.

12.Have you ever been to a musical performance?
Yes, I have been to Jay Zhou’s concert in Nanjing. He is one of the most popular singers in China and I have been his fan for many years. I felt really touched when we all sang together with him in the stadium. If he holds a concert here again, I will certainly go.

13.Have you ever learned to play a musical instrument?
I have to admit that I learned to play a variety of instruments, such as the violin and the piano, but I quitted the private courses when I found out that I was not really interested in them. At the age of eleven, I started to play the clarinet. It is still my favorite musical instrument now, and I enjoy performing with my clarinet at diverse occasions.

14.Is music an important subject at school in China?
Yes, I believe it is important.With music, chilldren will learn how to appreciate life. And I also think that kids can get a lot of benefits through learning to play a musical instrument, such as comprehension, perseverance, discipline, a sense of pride. 

15.Did you often to music when you were a child? (If yes, give details)
Yes of course. Just like I said, I learned to play the violin when I was only 4 years old so I had to listen to a lot of music played by violin when I was a child.

16.What kinds of music are (most)popular in China? 
It depends. For young people, I think most of them prefer pop music. And in recent years, maybe music from Europe, Japan and Korea is particularly popular. For mid-aged and old people, they may be fond of traditional music such as Beijing opera.

Color
1.What colour do you like best? / What's your favourite color ?Why?   
I prefer red. In China, red is associated with life and good luck. A traditional Chinese bride wears something red on her wedding day, such as her wedding gown and handkerchief used to cover her head, in the hope that it will bring her and her bridegroom some luck in future.

2.What’s the most popular color in China?
Colours mean many different things to different people and cultures.I think red is the most popular colour in China. For example, many Chinese people including me tend to think of red as a lucky color. On Chinese new year eve, parents like to dress their children in red, which contains the best wishing from adults.

3.Do you like to wear clothes or bright colors?
Yes, as I am an easy going type of person, I really like bright colours. So I usually wear clothes in orange, yellow,or red.

4.What’s the difference between men and women’s preference on colors?
Sure, well, I think men and women have different preference on colours, what I mean is, women are more romantic ,so they choose something like warm colours, while men usually are more stable, so they prefer dark colours.

5.Do colors affect your mood?
Sure. Colors can affect the way we feel. It can affect our moods in either a positive or negative manner.Light colors usually make me feel delight, while dark colors make me feel depressed.

Being in a hurry
1.When was the last time you did something in a hurry?
Last Monday, I slept in late by accident and got dressed in a hurry. I just picked something up off of the floor and slung it on. I didn't realize I had put on a shirt that was filthy dirty until I arrived at work and one of my colleagues pointed it out to me. It was so embarrassing.

2.Do you like to finish things quickly?
Yes, I do. I'm always being in a rush.If that's the case then I think I definitely suffer from hurry-sickness. I feel like I'm wasting time if I take too long to get from A to B or to finish a task. I like to feel like I'm being efficient and this probably leads me to hurry.

3.What kinds of things will you never do in a hurry?
If I’m going on holiday I always try to pack my bags diligently, usually by setting some time aside and doing it well in advance. There's nothing worse than arriving to your destination without something you really need, or even worse, getting to the airport and realising you don’t have your passport!

4.Why do people make mistakes more easily when they are in a hurry?
As the saying goes, "more speed, less haste". Things rarely work out the way you want them to when you rush, because people will always be less careful and forgetful when they are in a hurry. So in the long run, doing something well once is quicker than doing it twice.

Bicycle
1.Do you like riding a bicycle?[why?/why not?]
Well, I like to ride bikes for a few reasons. The main reason I like riding bikes is that I think it is a really fun and it is a good way to go sightseeing. I’d also like to point-out that riding a bike is very good for
my health because it can help me to lose weight. I would also like to add that recently I have not been able to ride my bike much, as I am quite busy at work.

2.Is it difficult to learn how to ride a bicycle?
not a bit, I think most kids can get the hang of it in one day. the initial stage of learning is all about balancing and it may be a little tricky for learners. But soon you will know it that, once our bike catches the speed, it will get balanced automatically. everything become natural.

3.Is it popular to ride bicycles in your country?
Definitely yes. Maybe it is not all the rage, but for the formal bicycle kingdom, a huge chunk of the population still use bicycles on a daily basis. it is a good and necessary way to go around.

4.When was the last time you used your bicycle?
well, that’s a good question and really bring some bad memory back. It’s nearly two years since the last time I rode a bicycle and it is when she got stolen. That was a rainy night and I insisted on riding home from work despite a frizzle. But soon it turned too heavy for cycling and I have to deal with the bicycle. So I locked it up to the pavement rails where it could be sheltered. The next day I got there, it was gone. the end of the story.

5.Do you think bicycle is very convenient for people to use in modern life?
Yes, it was, it is , and it will be convenient tool for people to use for going around. cos it is easy to learn and afford, and it is so often faster than cars in urban commuting when traffic jams are a daily routine. Let alone cycling is one of the best and funniest way to keep fit.

Computer
1.Do you use computers very much?
Yes, I almost use my computer every day since I basically need it for study, online-chatting, and for reading.

2.Have computers changed your life anyway?
I think computers have greatly changed my life since it allows me to take online-courses and online-shopping also brings us much convenience.

3.Do you think computers are useful in everyday life?
Sure. Computers bring us a lot of benefits. In contemporary society, people depend largely on computers to work and study. Computers are so useful that people almost can’t live without them. 
4.Do you think there are any disadvantages to use computers?
Yes. Some children may get harmful information online, and many people have become addicted to computer games. The computer radiation also has a detrimental effect on people’s health.
Computers are now used a lot in education. 
5.What do you think of this?
Undoubtedly, computers can become wonderful study tools for children if used properly. By using computers, children may learn faster, become more creative and absorb a variety of knowledge.

Hancraft
1.Do you like to collect things made by hand?
No, I am not a collector of any kind. The only thing that can fall into the category is a paper rose that I learnt to make in the hope of making some difference about that relationship, but to no avail.

2.Did you ever take handcrafts lessons at school?
Yes, there were labour skill lessons when I was in the preliminary school. But guess what, it was one of many courses called subsidiary course that would always be marginalized. so skill acquired.

3.Did you ever made anything by hand when you were a child?
of course, every kid once wished to be a good stuff maker that can create the special out of the ordinary. clumsy as I am, the best thing I can make is the paper plane. it is cheap, easy to make, and most importantly it was great fun to set it free out of windows and see it sliding in the wind.

4.Do you think handcrafts are meaningful activities?
Of course it is fundamentally meaningful. there is a time when craftsmen were highly respected and blue-collar jobs are widely desired in china. It is a pity that this era is gone. I always admire those who can make some wooden, paper, steel gadgets from some basic materials, and who can fix the house wire/drainage/toilet problem by their own, I believe every kids want that kind of father and every girl wants that kind of husband. That skill makes you resourceful, dependable and thus trustworthy.

5.Do you think children should learn more about handcraft?
Definitely yes especially it is an age when the whole fancy electronic devices mesmerise children like drugs. Children are more than ever in need of being pulled away from the screen and having some real and constructive contact with the real material world. Learning through making by hand is best way I can imagine for children to fully explore their creative potential. And as say, it is pure fun.

6.Is there anything that you would like to make by hand in the future?
I currently keep three deserted baby cats and they are temporarily living in a cardboard, so I would like to build three independent cat houses by hand and tools, and maybe a loo as well. The whole thing is still in the making and I hope they can be newly housed soon.

Science
1.Do you like science?
Yes, I like science very much. When I was young, my dream was to become a scientist, and now I deeply believe that science is very important to our lives. There is no doubt that science has made our lives much more convenient.

2.Are there many science museums in your hometown?
I guess yes, like the Beijing Science and Technology Museum.

3.Did you like science classes when you were young?

4.Do you think schoolchildren should have both art classes and science classes?
Well, that depends. It’s hard to say cos for students who have an extremely keen interest in a certain subject that they also excel at, I don’t think it’s necessary to learn both; but for those who don’t show a particular preference, maybe it’s better to integrate art classes with science classes.

5.Do you think science is important to your society?
Yes, I think science plays an important role in our socitey. It has largely promote our working efficiency and productivity. Physics helps us figure out how things work. Chemistry shows us the structure of the world and how materials interact with each other. Biology teaches us where living things come from and what living things need to survive.

Study efficency
1.Do you prefer to study in the morning or in the evening?
I prefer to study in the morning cos my mind is active after a good rest at night. We have the old saying: the best season during a day is the morning.

2.Why do some people find it difficult to focus in the morning?
I reckon because they don’t have a good rest, say they stayed up late the night before. Some people have really irregular timetables.

3.What do you do to improve your learning efficiency?
I would say, to integrate work with leisure, have a clear division of work and rest by making a clear schedule. Keeping a good mood also matters a lot.

